it's really easy to throw around a word
like compassion as if it's an entirely
good thing but um you know well what if
compassion leads you to have complete
contempt for your roommates and you know
in this case our roommates are parents
raising kids you know she's sketched out
for you a complex situation you know
what if compassion makes you want to
vomit
every time you smell cooking meat coming
from the kitchen
that's your bedroom or fills you with
rage and contempt for the people you're
living with and the excuses they're
making and teaching their kids that it's
okay to eat meat and drink milk and so
on you know I mean compassion can
compassion can lead to your your ruin it
can lead to a downward spiral of
depressive and suicidal feelings as much
as anything else can I banish yen a lot
of things but that vegan lifestyle you
don't know whether to laugh or to cry
and in the old days on this channel I
used to have a lot of videos basically
subtitled like the struggle is real
writing a lot of comments in England you
know the struggle is real ashlee life as
a vegan was really hard and soulful and
and awful and that was such a contrast
to the propaganda that was in fashion at
the time for vegans you know sometimes
you laugh about it as long as you cry
about it
yeah I had this I cross swords recently
with these idiots who are attached to a
I use channel AI us atheism is
unstoppable
and one of the things they were saying
that I disagreed with you kind of have
overheard this you were busy doing more
meaningful things but they were claiming
that like the thing they hated about
vegans was that these vegans live their
whole lives only surrounded by only
talking to other vegans like they didn't
mix with meat-eaters or not we're not
vegan I said to them look look just just
think through what you're saying you
know this can't possibly true almost all
vegans your parents eat meat your whole
all the friends you had in high school
or college eat meat your co-workers eat
meat I mean I said it's just not true
like even if you wanted to live only
certain of other vegans you live your
whole life constantly in the company of
meteors often in much closer company
then you can stand to bear so that
brings me to this this comment this is a
comment on reddit and you're gonna see
it's it's as real as a guess I'm an
ethical vegan living with non vegan
roommates and I have to leave for hours
every time okay so it's a female author
should I'm an ethical vegan living with
non vegan roommates and I have to leave
for hours every time they cook something
the flesh and secretions of tortured
animals
the smell stresses me out badly enough
and is unbearable think Jews having to
smell the burning flesh of their family
members but replace it with someone who
cares about animals being forced to
smell their flesh and secretions cooking
but the kitchen is always filthy and the
contamination makes this so yeah makes
it so I'm unable to cook any real meals
yeah you think reading voiceovers isn't
a real job and you do this now you
realize it's a real job it's a real
profession gonna get it through buzzer
yeah yeah then my roommates have to
start I've started complaining that they
feel that they can't always cook what
they want because sometimes they
actually show some decency and think to
themselves but that will bother I'm
forced to kiss their asses because I
don't want to cause conflict with their
kids around which will only backfire and
force them to justify abusing animals
their kids I'm also a full-time student
on top of working for them and don't
have time to be leaving for hours on top
of being too stressed out to focus on
studying after I get back so this this
is only 0.1 in the list you might post
the number one at the start okay and
these are basically reasons why being
vegan is destroying her life and she's
miserable and and she wants to kill
herself I mean she's desperately
desperately unhappy yeah this is the car
so as a vegan sorry you know you've
never been in this kind of situation you
went vegan after you finished caught
wolf yeah right right so you were living
with another vegan because he didn't
have a choice
naturally you know you you you guys are
sharing a room together but you can
imagine in college you used to share a
room sure an apartment yes with four
other girls there's mine for it yeah
they're always and their boyfriends like
seven
at one time right so it's seven people
sharing a kitchen kind of thing and you
can imagine it really would have been
awful trying to be vegan in the contest
yeah and there are other issues here
like the smell and the psychology you
know I think some vegans would stop
short of saying this is like smelling
their family members being burned in the
Holocaust
yeah just thinking of the logistics to
having to share well I'm having it too
they're cutting boards with yes yeah but
I just said I respect it I mean I
understand why she says that way and so
on yeah so we continue point two okay
my room is right next to the kitchen and
I'm always hearing bangs and the mom
yelling at her kids and I have Piper
kusas to top it off so that on top of
the smells and contamination because
they have kids and aren't clean people
themselves makes it borderline torture
Olivia they could use some some commas
you know what you're miserable into
present zone so so so hyper cause I've
actually never heard of it so extremely
acute hearing when I was younger that
was a that was broke I never had a
diagnosis rental yeah so I just
mentioned part of the context for this
the reason why I found this coming I
think I knew this woman fully five years
ago I now knew her via the internet but
you know we chatted through something
like Skype and you know that we had some
email back and forth so some what I
believe I knew I could be wrong but I
saw this comment on reddit I was like
you were you know so with someone were
actually I think I know the surrounding
situation now that doesn't really matter
I'm presenting on this video partly
because this is something all of us can
relate to yeah and it's something that I
think exactly unsympathetic meat eaters
like those people I was debating with
the people from the a IU subculture
though these people it might be under
debated me over discord online yeah they
might not think about it right I don't
think right they profoundly lack
sympathy for because of it even you know
what cuz it's probably what's just shown
in you know what peers show that they
live this lifestyle where everybody
makes smoothies it is but it's also the
moral superiority moral inferiority
thing the last time I bought you vegan
ice cream bars
I bought you coconut milk ice cream bars
the woman who seemed like a woman at the
very low level education at the checkout
line she was an older woman
I would guess she was 60 but she just
seemed like someone who never went past
even primary school frankly talking and
she said to me you know very simply she
was like oh you know I've never tried
these before and they were like $2 offs
they were like you know five dollars
Canadian you know and my she said you
know and she said in a kind of garbled
way she was wondering if they were any
good and you know the first thing I said
was well I'm vegan said so you know I
hate this kind of stuff all the time and
and she was a little bit confused by
that and she said yes yes I understand
you know you're much better than all of
us but what I wonder is if they taste
and you know she really didn't mean it
in a mean way but you don't put to her
my answer that I'm vegan is irrelevant
you know I mean she wants to know if the
ice cream fart it's good it's like yeah
it's a vegan product so I'm I'm saying
I'm vegan you know I mean but that's you
know I thought oh so you work in a
grocery store and and that's your
reaction to vegan to you vegan means
morally superior and I think these
people said mean if you guys don't know
it was it was kind of it was famous on
the internet for like three days you're
like oh wow aisel talk to Amy Kay and
these people from a IU server and he
really handed them it was it was pretty
vicious it was a brutal side of my
character literally never seen before
you've never seen me really lay into
somebody psychologically but it was it
was a kind of you know demolition yeah I
mean psychological America so
psychologically and and mostly ethically
but it was most people wasn't it was a
whole room of people it was me against
like four or five people but it really
what it was it really was about ethics
it was really saying know people who
don't you know hold ourselves to any
standard and so on
but it was a really really strange kind
of internet confrontation and there are
people who do that for a living
they're full-time drama queens on
YouTube so I think they can take it and
I've chatted with them since then
they're you know okay but from their
perspective they see vegans as morally
superior and again that's why that
started my conversation with them
started with them approaching vegans for
only living amongst other vegans and
it's like that's what do you
saying look that's not true for any of
us yeah or or it's only true for exactly
people like us that's true if you're in
a couple linger yeah I actually see
Facebook posts on groups that I'm a
member of looking for vegan roommates
because yes right right well also but it
mean in reality you and I are just kind
of cut off a little bit for us too so ya
know keep me on the wheel vegan and we
don't drink alcohol yeah and we don't
watch ice hockey we don't watch football
yeah you know I mean but you know there
are many things cutting us off from the
mainstream yeah there was for about two
months but would be exactly this kind of
technology you know when the 20% of this
computer and the internet and so on it
makes it easier than ever to live in
isolation yeah you know my grandparents
they people used to meet up and play
cards they used to meet up and play you
know cribbage or they'd go and play
different types of sports that don't
require you to be an athlete like um so
what's wrong with the giant heavy rock
on the ice curling curling yeah see I'm
barely Canadian I don't know there's no
camera Canadian sports you know they do
curling you know well in the 1920s no in
the 1920s in 1930 yeah no exactly people
now play people now play xbox they now
all we know they can't do curling but
yeah but my point is those things bled
to some level of social interaction so I
do think it's true the vegans who only
spend their time with other vegans are
the people who like this you know
really yes been on the telly and that
was true in China also it's not like I
had a ton of friends in China you know
we really lived a life you know to
yourself right that's right but also
again it's not like people were beating
down our door to be friends those in
China alcohol was a big big barrier well
no if I if I ate meat and drank alcohol
I really could have made friends in
China a lot of people when I first got
there they were giving me advice on that
but for them their idea of socializing
especially that was entirely built on
getting drunk eating meat and sleeping
with prostitutes or equivalent is also
part of it as though that's the real
China that's the sort of China you don't
see on fashion television
let's go no.3 I can't find a vegan
roommate and can't afford living on my
own for H yeah yeah yeah ok number 4 I
have PTSD from being physically abused
nearly daily for a decade of my life and
I'm dealing with that on top of it
heavy oh okay keeps going I assume
because they were getting shorter and
shorter that this was no whining down no
it's just getting started alright number
five someone I used to love who is
abusive has recently come back into my
life
and when he isn't asking for nudes he's
treating me like [ __ ] I even ended up
telling him I wanted to kill myself
after he made a joke about not giving a
[ __ ] about veganism in other words
animals being tortured I was desperate
for him to understand how much pain it
caused me but he just insulted me for it
and made me feel worse I was only able
to get him to promise to try to be nice
to me and not mock animals being abused
through nudes basically oh because
that's ah through nudes ie because he
wants nude photographs and you see it's
yeah grammatically and today it's
leaving a little bit up to your
imagination so he was a she was able to
make him stop
through nudes he's gonna mean
carrot-and-stick yeah tell me about it
because that's how desperate I am
apparently and tonight I told him I was
in pain and he acted like he didn't care
and it was burden to him again yeah so
you know anyone watching this you just
drop that bomb anyone who's watching
sorry for themselves never late yeah so
I if this is the same girl I knew five
years ago I remember her then talking
about this same guy and already there
were these red flags with them like
demanding nudes and stuff
and like I didn't know her that well I
wasn't gonna be like lucky [ __ ]
getting yourself these are really
serious red flags but I remember it was
like wow these are really serious red
flags this is this kind of behavior yes
I remember that five years ago this
already happened as someone I only you
know I haven't talked to you for four
five years made if it's a totally
different person then then you know
you know maybe I'm I'm assuming but
anyway there are two people who have a
lot of these things ago all right point
six okay I have no actual friends and no
one to relate to so I'm essentially
forced to continue talking to number
five the only people I've talked to
regularly regularly have just heard me
so I mean I know you know the content of
my channel has changed we now have 20%
more content about Aristotle and
Socrates that nobody wants to hear and
maybe 80% less content about being a
self-pitying isolated vegan that was
part of the original mo my gentleman you
remember the old videos I really talked
about isolation isolation from your own
family isolation from your culture
isolation from the few friends you might
have this was this was grist for the
mill here on a Bellis Hill and I think I
mean again there's nothing ineluctable
about it there's nothing essential about
veganism that leaves these things but
you can see how you know extrinsically
and and you know accidentally these
things tend to go together mmm and
that's probably if it is the same person
that's probably why she became four
instantly briefly five years ago was
exactly looking for the vegans on the
internet looking people who cared about
these issues looking for somebody yeah
yeah I don't know before I was speaking
I didn't have very many friends anyway
yeah well you know you suck at life
[Laughter]
right right but I mean what's what's the
point of having friends you know you
know there's there is more than one
point but for me ultimately if you care
about activism you care about politics
you know politics is a social enterprise
you care about learning languages we're
talking with us a couple hours ago
learning any language you want to learn
Cree you want to learn a jib why you
want to learn Chinese really you know
communication of you ideally
face-to-face I still write email in
Chinese you know is a huge brother so a
lot of the things that interest me in
life make me value friendship for much
more than just what friendship commonly
connotes in our in our culture okay
number seven okay number seven the only
people in my life are telling me to go
to there it's so easy to say isn't it
but therapy couldn't change really
give me a place to live and I wouldn't
be able to trust the therapist unless
they were an ethical vegan so would only
cause me to be more stressed out beneath
any facade right so this is a real issue
we've talked about this in a bunch of
different contexts people say get
professional what if there is no
professional help what if the
professional you can get the therapist
fundamentally has no sympathy with you
because they regard veganism as crazy or
they regard the things that are that are
real sources of stress and misery in
your life as unreasonable or crazy you
know you want someone can relate to that
like for me you know so you know I went
to a therapist with my ex-wife before we
split up you know where we went together
I guess you'd call it couples therapy or
whatever but like yeah but I mean like
having a therapist who can relate to
intellectually or professionally what
was going in either our lives is you
know it's kind of asking a lot and then
beyond that I mean what is what is the
function what help can the therapist
give you like at her case the therapist
can't give you a better place to live
you know they can't actually change any
of the real problems they can they can
help you rehearse talking about those
problems so you become more I look when
to discussing them you know but yes and
anyway it's not just about like you okay
so you're right you're right abusive guy
okay yeah it sounds pretty abusive
asking for nudes and having these weird
transactions between she's she's got a
relationship she wants to get out of but
it is also the only relationship she has
no life which is you know which is very
sad but that's you know let's keep
another real if she if she loses this
one guy who wants nude photos or where
all the time it's just not necessarily
evil but it sounds awful in this case
then she's gonna be she's gonna be all
alone hmm
okay okay Wow yep all right
so she says I want to die so [ __ ] bad
and literally the only thing that's kept
me alive for seven years has been my
responsibility to try to help the
animals but I feel like I can't even get
to the point to significantly help
animals because the process of getting
into a position where I can takes too
long and the weight is unbearable
painful I was on anxiety medication in
the past but got off of it and moved in
with this family and I thought I
wouldn't need it since I wasn't being
abused anymore also because it made me
gain weight now I need something because
I don't think anxiety make it medication
is the answer I can't move to another
city with more vegans because I'm a
full-time student and won't have to wait
for the semester end but I can't live
like this anymore
yep and then after that kind of radio
silence yeah so again I don't know if
this is the particular person I knew but
whether or not it's a complete stranger
you know my my heart goes out there and
you know I don't know all of us are in
situations that are only degrees of
difference separated from that I think
all of us can imagine being trapped in
those circumstances or we've been in
circumstances you know somewhere along
those lines and anyway I'm very cagey
about this because of the legacy of
Buddhism also it's it's really easy to
throw around a word like compassion as
if it's an entirely good thing and you
know you know my catch phrase I talk
about compassion being an analytical
tool and so on you know but um you know
well what if compassion leads you to
have complete contempt for your
roommates and you know in this case her
roommates are parents raising kids you
know she's sketched out for you a
complex situation you know what if
compassion makes you want to vomit every
time you smell cooking meat coming from
the kitchen
like your bedroom or fills you with rage
and contempt for the people you're
living with and the excuses they're
making and teaching their kids that it's
okay to eat meat and drink milk and so
on you know I mean compassion can
compassion can lead to your your ruin
they can lead to a downward spiral of
depressive and suicidal feelings as much
as anything else can you know maybe
maybe more than most you know so to put
this into into context what I was going
to compare it to there's a YouTube
channel called
so you're dating a vegan this is
girlfriend still not vegan she annoys me
she's not funny clever or pretty
to tolerate her animal murder leave that
ignorant girl if she has not changed by
now that's me well that's my wife you're
talking about there yeah you remember
those guys yeah and they got a lot of
flack from their viewers lately because
they they were dating and they got
married I assumed they got married after
the start the YouTube channel I never
checked and she the woman in the couple
she still never you know converted to
veganism yeah and you know so they get
messages from people and their audience
saying look you know you should drop
that bomb you should you should you
should break up with her if she's not
vegan yet and again I mean on the one
hand maybe as vegans you know people can
relate to that but on the other hand I
mean it's it's a lonely road I think a
lot of people want to cling to the only
person that got who loves them or cares
about them in their life even if they're
deeply flawed even if they're demanding
nude photos all the time or you know
whatever the situation is despite the
terrible things that are wrong with them
because you know nobody is quite so
alone as a as a lonely vegan you know in
this in this one you think it was like
two people owned but you uh you can't
even pick up a chocolate bar at 7-eleven
at yourself up for something as a vegan
I mean I know I know it's a more time
with shallow but it's real the feeling
of persecution and the feeling of having
closed doors all around you the feeling
of being in a culture that's essentially
an inherently evil it's based on the
exploitation of animals and ecologically
unsustainable things the feeling that
you know all the people around you are
fundamentally immoral and unethical you
can sell all that as as compassion the
compassionate lifestyle but you know the
dude on so you're dating a vegan out of
other names he's red hair doesn't he and
with a red hair dude he he asked his
wife at one point
would you consider becoming vegan in
exchange if I take up rock climbing I'll
become all rock oh man if you become
vegan he'll come to the gym every time
that you go to the gym
no not every time y'all come to the gym
No I can't make you do a hobby that you
don't like but it'd be in exchange for
something that you don't like no that's
not sustainable you know that on his end
well they the reverse ascendant not
really I can't force you into a hobby
that'll be something you do because you
enjoy it yeah I would rather spend my
time doing things besides carnivals
yeah it's cool that's what I got married
exploiter I think we should watch
Earthlings and you know they chitchat
about it and you know of course she
basically says no but of course it's not
it's nothing like rock climbing I mean
you know Isaac aka ask yourself he
always uses these really extreme
examples if people say they're gonna be
vegan five days a week and not on
weekends it's like oh so were you
against slavery five days a week and not
on weekends do you refuse to engage in
rape five days a week but on weekends
like right that's right that's right
and your and so again the sort this is
the first promise the video when I
mentioning the first place is just that
in contrast to sort of strangely
judgemental perception of some of these
Outsiders who are castigating veganism
people who regard us as morally superior
smug and exclusivist or exclusionist as
trying to exclude from our lives any
kind of meat eaters I think you know the
the kind of lonesome lamentable reality
is that for a lot of vegans like the
woman who wrote this message they're
desperate to be with somebody you know
they're desperate to be loved and
supported and appreciated in a world
that seems incredibly bleak and hostile
and you know ethically antithetical to
their basic assumptions about good and
evil and what's what's acceptable yeah
and the Internet is a place where they
can find those people so maybe that's
the impression that these people on the
inner I got that
that's why vegans real life but in a
sense the Internet is the exact opposite
of reality
right like so people so ask yourself has
this discord server and they're all
these people who can come on there and
talk about veganism they can talk about
from this very peculiar logical
perspective that ask yourself as you
know really invented from up you know
you really created a new kind of fashion
within veganism for this style of
argumentation right but each one of
those people is alone you know being
like what do you you can call that a
community you know what song I mean you
said you can find other vegans on the
internet I think you can search for them
but I mean this this woman writing this
do you think she's found anyone on the
Internet
I think she's all alone I think he's
writing this message now at the end of
her rope after however many years of
being vegan and she's utterly fine
pardon me she's utterly failed to find
and keep friends made over the internet
and you know it's true you can rant on
the internet maybe somebody will hear it
maybe somebody will listen it's better
than ranting at a wall but it's actually
not that different from writing you're
ranting at a glowing box that you've got
on the wall and yeah yeah you're right
meat eaters can perceive us as having
real cohesion and community from what
they see on the internet but actually
what you're seeing on the internet is a
symptom of the exact opposite of the the
mournful isolation that's so much of us
living so that's it guys veganism the
struggle is real
[Music]
evolution